README.md, before:

# Terminal App to control the robot from explore-it

This is the entire source code of the terminal app. It is based on [react-native](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/).

To build the app run

```
$ npm install
```

or

```
$ yarn install
```

This will download and install all dependencies into directory ``node_modules``.

# Versioning

In a React Native app different tools and technologies come together, like JavaScript, npm, Android, iOS, Gradle and Xcode. This fact requires from developers to manage versioning at several locations for each app. Keeping them all in sync manually is a tedious and error prone task but fortunately, there is [react-native-version](http://www.loukasandreadelis.com/react-native-app-versioning/) tool, an easier way to do it with a single command!

Examples:

```
$ npm version 0.5.0  // set app version to 0.5.0
$ npm version patch  // increment patch number
$ npm version minor  // increment minor number
$ npm version major  // increment major number
```

# Development Environment

You'll need [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/download/), the [React Native CLI](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/getting-started#the-react-native-cli) and a Text Editor like [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/). That's all!

More information can be found on [React Native's Website](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/getting-started). **The app does NOT use [Expo](https://expo.io/)!**

## Run App on Android

**NOTE**: You will need [Java 8](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/getting-started#java-development-kit).

Have an Android emulator running (quickest way to get started), or a device connected

```
$ emulator -list-avds
Nexus_6_API_25
$ emulator @Nexus_6_API_25
$ react-native run-android
```

## Run App on iOS

No need to start a simulator first! Run command

```
$ react-native run-ios
```

to start simulator (from Xcode) and deploy app or deploy app onto attached iPhone.

**NOTE**:

- Several starts are needed for the first time! The whole compilation cycle takes too long to finish in time.
- **Signing** properties in Xcode are needed. Start Xcode and go to "Signing" paragraph.

# Hints for BLE support

The library used in this project to support BLE is: https://github.com/Polidea/react-native-ble-plx
```
$ npm install --save react-native-ble-plx
$ react-native link react-native-ble-plx

$ npm install
```


## Found UIDs

```
service uuid:        0000ffe0-0000-1000-8000-00805f9b34fb
characteristic uuid: 0000ffe1-0000-1000-8000-00805f9b34fb
```


# Hints upgrading to new React-Native (RN) versions

### RN Version 0.56.0

On Windows, there seems to be a bug with version 0.56.0 of React Native. A proposed [fix](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/issues/20331) is to use version 0.55.4.

### RN Version 0.57.1

Task: 
    Renaming of project and upgrading from v0.56.0 to v0.57.1

Idea: 
    Start new React Native project from scratch with new name 'terminal' and copy all missing artefacts from the old project.

```
$ react-native init terminal
$ cd terminal
```

### RN Version 0.57.3

Task: 
    Renaming of project and upgrading from v0.57.1 to v0.57.3

Idea: 
    Start new React Native project from scratch with new name 'terminal' and copy all missing artefacts from the old project.

```
$ react-native init terminal
$ cd terminal
```

### RN Version 0.57.8

Tasks: 
 1. Upgrading the project itself to v1.0.0-Beta
 2. Upgrading React Native from v0.57.3 to v0.57.8

Steps:
 1. Follow instructions on [upgrade notes 0.57.8](https://github.com/react-native-community/react-native-releases/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#0578)
 2. Running Xcode 10 change the build system to "Legacy Build System" as described on [github](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/issues/21631)

### RN Version 0.58.5

Task: 
 - Renaming of project and upgrading from v0.57.8 to v0.58.5
 - Changed from `react-native-languages` to `react-native-localize`, because `react-native-languages` is deprecated. **Update code!**

Actions: 
- Start new React Native project from scratch with new name 'terminal' and copy all missing artefacts from the old project.
- Copy image assets for android from `android/app/src/main/res` and for ios from `ios/terminal/Images.xcassets/AppIcon.appiconset`
- Link `appcenter`
- iOS: Check if cocoa pods is installed. If not install it `sudo gem install cocoapods`

```
$ react-native init terminal
$ cd terminal
$ yarn install
$ react-native link react-native-ble-plx
$ react-native link react-native-localize
```

Read project [react-native-plx-ble](https://github.com/Polidea/react-native-ble-plx) carefully. Their are some updates needed 
    
 - for Android in `app/build.gradle` and `AndroidManifest.xml`!
 - for iOS. Open Xcode and add empty Swift file

# Issues

1. Testing in simulators on localhost

    Testing on android; should work!

    ```
    $ react-native run-android
    ````

    Testing on iOS; should work, (maybe needs 2 tries!):
    ```
    $ react-native run-ios
    ````

2. Adding "react-native-ble-plx"

    See https://github.com/Polidea/react-native-ble-plx

    Check ios and android setup carefully

3. Linking of dependencies

    Don't forget the links

    ```
    $ react-native link react-native-languages
    ```

4. You can use free Web Services to create the iconset for both android and ios.

    - Android: 
    
        e.g. http://romannurik.github.io/AndroidAssetStudio/index.html
        
        Add launcher icons to android project under 'android/app/src/main/res'
   
    - iOS:

        e.g. http://appiconmaker.co/

        Add launcher icons to ios project under 'ios/terminal/Images.xcassets'

# Adding AppCenter

To distribute the App during the development cycle the Cloud Service [AppCenter](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/de/app-center/) will be used.

Commit message:

added comment for Tagging Releases

README.md, after:

# Terminal App to control the robot from explore-it

This is the entire source code of the terminal app. It is based on [react-native](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/).

To build the app run

```
$ npm install
```

or

```
$ yarn install
```

This will download and install all dependencies into directory ``node_modules``.

# Versioning

In a React Native app different tools and technologies come together, like JavaScript, npm, Android, iOS, Gradle and Xcode. This fact requires from developers to manage versioning at several locations for each app. Keeping them all in sync manually is a tedious and error prone task but fortunately, there is [react-native-version](http://www.loukasandreadelis.com/react-native-app-versioning/) tool, an easier way to do it with a single command!

Examples:

```
$ npm version 0.5.0  // set app version to 0.5.0
$ npm version patch  // increment patch number
$ npm version minor  // increment minor number
$ npm version major  // increment major number
```

# Tagging Releases

Use the *Annotated Tag* support by Git to tag releases on the master branch with a descriptive message like:

```
$ git tag -a v1.0.0 -m "Releasing version v1.0.0"
```

# Development Environment

You'll need [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/download/), the [React Native CLI](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/getting-started#the-react-native-cli) and a Text Editor like [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/). That's all!

More information can be found on [React Native's Website](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/getting-started). **The app does NOT use [Expo](https://expo.io/)!**

## Run App on Android

**NOTE**: You will need [Java 8](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/getting-started#java-development-kit).

Have an Android emulator running (quickest way to get started), or a device connected

```
$ emulator -list-avds
Nexus_6_API_25
$ emulator @Nexus_6_API_25
$ react-native run-android
```

## Run App on iOS

No need to start a simulator first! Run command

```
$ react-native run-ios
```

to start simulator (from Xcode) and deploy app or deploy app onto attached iPhone.

**NOTE**:

- Several starts are needed for the first time! The whole compilation cycle takes too long to finish in time.
- **Signing** properties in Xcode are needed. Start Xcode and go to "Signing" paragraph.

# Hints for BLE support

The library used in this project to support BLE is: https://github.com/Polidea/react-native-ble-plx
```
$ npm install --save react-native-ble-plx
$ react-native link react-native-ble-plx

$ npm install
```


## Found UIDs

```
service uuid:        0000ffe0-0000-1000-8000-00805f9b34fb
characteristic uuid: 0000ffe1-0000-1000-8000-00805f9b34fb
```


# Hints upgrading to new React-Native (RN) versions

### RN Version 0.56.0

On Windows, there seems to be a bug with version 0.56.0 of React Native. A proposed [fix](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/issues/20331) is to use version 0.55.4.

### RN Version 0.57.1

Task: 
    Renaming of project and upgrading from v0.56.0 to v0.57.1

Idea: 
    Start new React Native project from scratch with new name 'terminal' and copy all missing artefacts from the old project.

```
$ react-native init terminal
$ cd terminal
```

### RN Version 0.57.3

Task: 
    Renaming of project and upgrading from v0.57.1 to v0.57.3

Idea: 
    Start new React Native project from scratch with new name 'terminal' and copy all missing artefacts from the old project.

```
$ react-native init terminal
$ cd terminal
```

### RN Version 0.57.8

Tasks: 
 1. Upgrading the project itself to v1.0.0-Beta
 2. Upgrading React Native from v0.57.3 to v0.57.8

Steps:
 1. Follow instructions on [upgrade notes 0.57.8](https://github.com/react-native-community/react-native-releases/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#0578)
 2. Running Xcode 10 change the build system to "Legacy Build System" as described on [github](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/issues/21631)

### RN Version 0.58.5

Task: 
 - Renaming of project and upgrading from v0.57.8 to v0.58.5
 - Changed from `react-native-languages` to `react-native-localize`, because `react-native-languages` is deprecated. **Update code!**

Actions: 
- Start new React Native project from scratch with new name 'terminal' and copy all missing artefacts from the old project.
- Copy image assets for android from `android/app/src/main/res` and for ios from `ios/terminal/Images.xcassets/AppIcon.appiconset`
- Link `appcenter`
- iOS: Check if cocoa pods is installed. If not install it `sudo gem install cocoapods`

```
$ react-native init terminal
$ cd terminal
$ yarn install
$ react-native link react-native-ble-plx
$ react-native link react-native-localize
```

Read project [react-native-plx-ble](https://github.com/Polidea/react-native-ble-plx) carefully. Their are some updates needed 
    
 - for Android in `app/build.gradle` and `AndroidManifest.xml`!
 - for iOS. Open Xcode and add empty Swift file

# Issues

1. Testing in simulators on localhost

    Testing on android; should work!

    ```
    $ react-native run-android
    ````

    Testing on iOS; should work, (maybe needs 2 tries!):
    ```
    $ react-native run-ios
    ````

2. Adding "react-native-ble-plx"

    See https://github.com/Polidea/react-native-ble-plx

    Check ios and android setup carefully

3. Linking of dependencies

    Don't forget the links

    ```
    $ react-native link react-native-languages
    ```

4. You can use free Web Services to create the iconset for both android and ios.

    - Android: 
    
        e.g. http://romannurik.github.io/AndroidAssetStudio/index.html
        
        Add launcher icons to android project under 'android/app/src/main/res'
   
    - iOS:

        e.g. http://appiconmaker.co/

        Add launcher icons to ios project under 'ios/terminal/Images.xcassets'

# Adding AppCenter

To distribute the App during the development cycle the Cloud Service [AppCenter](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/de/app-center/) will be used.
